# MechaCar_Statistical_Analysis
## Linear Regression to Predict MPG
- According to our results of statistical summary of multiple linear regression, we can assume that vehicle length, ground clearance and intercept provide a non-random amount of variance to the mpg values and have significant impact on the mpg, because their Pr(>|t|) values are close to zero. 
- Slope or p-value of the multiple linear model is 5.35e-11, which is not equal to zero. Therefore we can reject null hypothesis and consider that there is a relationship between independent and dependent values.
- Also adjusted R-squared value is 0.68, which indicates on moderate correlation level and the model can be considered capable to predict mpg of MechaCar prototypes effectively.

## Summary Statistics on Suspension Coils
The design specifications for the MechaCar suspension coils dictate that the variance of the suspension coils must not exceed 100 PSI. According to overall analysis of Suspension Coil data, variance is 62.29, which is below the threshold. But after grouping the results by lots we can see the big difference between lots. Lots 1 and 2 have good results (0.98 and 7.47 relatively) and lot 3 is way above the limit (170.29). Here we assume that grouping helps to reveal weaknesses in production.

## T-Tests on Suspension Coils
By performing One Sample t-test we can determine if PSI of the data set is statistically equal to 1500 PSI. T-test of [all manufacturing lots](https://github.com/andgerashchenko/MechaCar_Statistical_Analysis/blob/421bd5199ba72b485e792101a3de7d0a0b76aacf/Resources/t_test_all.png) shows that p-value is higher then 0.05, therefore the overall data can be considered statistically equal to 1500 PSI.
One Sample t-test for [each manufacturing lot](https://github.com/andgerashchenko/MechaCar_Statistical_Analysis/blob/421bd5199ba72b485e792101a3de7d0a0b76aacf/Resources/t_test_by_lots.png) gives difefrent picture. Lots 1 and 2 have p-values (1 and 0.61) above our significance level(0.05) and we can state that both means are statistically similar to 1500 PSI. Lot 3 p-value (0.042) is lower the significance level, which is indicates that data set mean is different from the population mean of 1,500 pounds per square inch.

## Study Design: MechaCar vs Competition
In order to be successful on the market MechaCar should meet customers' expectations, which can be studied in comparison to competitors' statistical data. For example we can compare two most important metrics: price and quality. However quality index is multifactorial, we can roughly equate it to maintenance cost. After collecting needed data we will determine null and alternative hypothesis, where null hypothesis presume that both data sets are equal and alternative hypothesis presume that data sets are different. We going to compare to similar data sets, that's why we will use Two-Sample t-Test, which will show if there a statistical difference between the distribution means from two samples. In order to perform this test we need considerably large data samples from both data sets. For example price lists and average maintenance costs for cars of same class. 
